USER INTERFACE
==============

EduMIPS64 offers an easy-to-use user interface, composed by 6 frames that show
you different informations about the execution of the current program.

The look'n'feel resembles WinMIPS64's UI.

----------------
   The frames
----------------

Pipeline
--------
This frame represents the actual status of the pipeline, showing which
instruction is in each pipeline stage.
The five pipeline stages are represented in all the frames using different 
colors, that can be customized via the Settings dialog.
Note that actually FP stages are not used, because there's no FP support in
EduMIPS64.

Cycles
------
This window shows the changes that occur in the pipeline as time goes by.
On the left side there's the instructions that are executed, and on the right
side there's its situation in the pipeline. You can think of columns as time
slots, so each column represents the photography of the pipeline in a given
simulation step, as it would be represented in the Pipeline window

Registers
---------
This frame shows the situation of the registers of our virtual CPU, including
GPR and FPR. As there's no support for floating point operation, the FPR are
always 0.
If you click on a register, you'll see its decimal value in the status bar. If
you double-click on a register, you'll be able to change its value. Please be
sure to enter a valid hexadecimal number.

Data
----
This frame shows the situation of the memory. 
The first column contains the (hex) address of the memory cell, the second column
contains the hexadecimal representation of the contents of the cell, the third
contains the label and the fourth contains the values that the cell should
contain, as it's stated in the source code you've opened.
Clicking on a memory cell will show its decimal value in the status bar, and
double-clicking on it will allow you to change its value. The content of the
fourth column won't change.

Code
----
This frame shows the source code of the program you've loaded.
The first column contains the (hex) address of the instruction, the second column
contains the hexadecimal representation of the instruction, the third contains
the label of the instruction, the fourth contains the textual representation of the
instruction and the fifth contains the comment of the instruction, as it's
written in the source code.

Statistics
----------
This window shows the execution statistics of the program. The labels explain
the meaning of each number.

---------------
   The menus
---------------

FILE
----
-  Open (CTRL + O): Loads a file
-  Reset (CTRL + R): Resets the simulator
-  Write Dinero tracefile (CTRL + D): Creates a DineroIV xdin tracefile,
   containing informations about memory accesses (data and instructions) issued
   by the current program. This menu option is disabled until you complete the
   execution of the program (ie. the simulator executes the HALT instruction).

EXECUTE
-------
These menu options aren't available until you load a file

-  Single cycle (F7): Executes a simulation step
-  Multi cycle (F8): Executes a certain number of steps. This number can be set
   via the Configure menu.
-  Run (F4): Executes the whole program.
-  Stop (F9):  Stops the execution of the program executed via F4 or F8.

CONFIGURE
---------

You can open the Settings dialog, can allows you to customize these options:
-  Multiple steps: Sets the cycles number for Multi Cycle.
-  Enable forwarding: Enables forwarding, reducing the CPU cycles acting on the
   instructions' behavior.
   ALU Instructions, in the EX stage, make their calculations and write the
   results in the registers without waiting the WB stage. This applies to Load
   instructions too, that read the data in the MEM stage and directly write it
   without waiting for the WB stage.
-  Enable warnings: Lets parsing warnings to be shown in a window as if they
   were errors.
-  Sync graphics with CPU in multi-step execution: syncs the GUI with the CPU
   every execution step when the program is run in multi-step mode, via F4 or F8
-  Change pipeline colors: Allows you to choose the colors to be associated, in
   the ui, with each pipeline stage. 

Or else, you can change the GUI language via the Change language option.

TOOLS
-----

-  Dinero Frontend: Allows you to call the DineroIV simulator directly from
   inside EduMIPS64, showing a report of its output. You have to insert the
   command line parameters for DineroIV and the path to dineroIV executable.
   The option is disablet until the execution of the current program is
   terminated.

WINDOW
------

-  Tile: re-arranges windows in order to make them fill the whole area of the
   main window.

HELP
----

-  Manual: shows this manual.
-  About EduMIPS64: shows an about dialog.


----------------------------
   The configuration file
----------------------------
The configuration file stores your preferences about edumips64's inner working
and appereance. They are automatically saved every time you exit from EduMIPS64.
